*Figure 1*: Graphical representation of a fictional ecological network (a), where species are represented by circles and their directed interactions by arrows. The representation is build from the adjacency matrix (b). In an unipartite representation as this one, each species is represented both as a column and a row. 1 indicates an interaction between two species (e.g. the green square in (b)), and 0 indicates the absence of interaction. This matrix allows to calculate network characteristics such as the connectance (c) and the degree distribution (d). (c) represents the level of connection into the network and is calculated as shown in the figure. (d) represents the distribution of interaction per species. The circles size is relative to the amount of interactions a species have (d1). This distribution is non-random and generally follows a power-law distribution (d2). The network can be split into subnets composed of 3 species, called motif (e). Among the 13 different possible motifs, we only represented the most commonly found in natural communities.

*Figure 2*: Network topology, example of a fictional plant-pollinator network. (a) shows a perfectly nested network, where specialists pollinators are visiting plants embedded into the diet of more generalist pollinators. (b) shows a perfectly modular network, where sub-groups of species interact more strongly with each over than with the rest of the network. (c) shows a random network. Two representations are possibles. Top: Bipartite representation using nodes and edges ; Bottom: Ordered interaction matrix. Here, we used striped yellow squares instead of 1 for presence of interaction and empty squares in absence of interaction.
